Let's continue where we left off in the last lecture which is we have defined two simple roots.
The home page and the contact page and the only thing they did was to return the result of the view
function which itself is rendering the contents of the template the contact template and the home.
And they both extend the common layout and we can do that even simpler.
So we have defined and get root and uh returned the result of view function from the closure we can
use another method of the root object which is the view and the view only accepts two parameters.
The first one is the URL so the same as you see above.
And the second one is the template name.
So this is essentially doing exactly the same as we do here because we are not passing any data we just
want to render a page so we can comment that out and do the same with the contact page.
So route view we specify the URL as contact and the template name is contact.
Now we can also comment that out and let's go to the browser and check it out.
So a lot of Voltaire's displays the whole page and slash contact displays our contact template
what we did so far were are very straightforward examples we just rendered simple pages for a simple
euros like contact and home.
Now let's do a more complicated example and this would be defining our route with our parameter.
So we'll create a get route and we want to display a blog post and the blog post needs an I.D. So let's
define a parameter and call it I.D..
Now it would have to have a closure and we'll pass this parameter to our closure and simply return this.
So we'll return I.D. Now let's go back to the browser and try to enter that your URL so block post 1
you can see that we echo whatever we pass here.
So 1 2 free will also work because that's how we defined our function.
Now inside the you URL you can use as many parameters as you want.
And they have to be enclosed inside Cali braces.
So this means are parameter.
So there are some restrictions on what you can use for the parameter name
they need to contain alphabetic characters and underscores.
So for example you can't do something like this
but with underscores it's fine so let's check that example if it still works.
So that still works and you might have noticed that I now rename the parameter in the URL to the block
post I.D. but the function parameter is still called I.D. And this is because it doesn't really matter
how you call your parameters in the you or else they are just taken from left to right and marched with
the closure arguments.
So if you will add another parameter let's say outer It doesn't matter.
We can add another parameter and we can call it outer so let's concatenate those two variables.
You can see that this works and we can even call it out or name.
So it's completely different than what we defined inside the URL.
And this would still work.
You can see that we get the same result.
Now let's see what happens if we will change the parameter name to use dash character as well.
And we know we can't do that.
So after refreshing we see the 404 page which means that this specific route could not be found
so let's recap the roots we've required parameters.
So if you specify a required parameter that's how you specify it.
Inside the curly braces you specify a parameter name which has to contain an alphabetic character and
an underscore.
So this one is invalid.
And also the name of the parameter inside root and the variable name or argument name of the closure
function does not meet too much with the parameter name of the url.
It's just taken in order from left to right and passed to the function.
Now let's see how we can pass the data to the view.
So first we will simplify this rule by removing the second parameter from both the URL and the US the
function argument and now let's create a brand new view and call it a block post late BHP.
It will also extend the layout and it will have a section called content.
So we also need to end section
okay that's enough for now so we have the I.D. Now let's define are simple variable code pages which
would be an array or it will actually be un associative array and the Keys would represent the data
to be rendered.
So each element of disarray will have the key as the I.D. and the data might contain for example the
take the title which might be hello from page 1.
And now for simplicity we can just copy that and under the key to it would be hello from page 2.
Now here we are returning this data and we have to change it to use the view function that will render
the block post view.
And now how to pass our parameter.
So we have the I.D. And we have this pages array so the second argument as you can see here is the data
array and it consists of the key which which would represent the variable name.
We want to pass to their view let's call it data and now we'll pass the pages with the index specified
by I.D.
So we'll be passing the data depending on the I.D. of the root
now.
Let's refresh that.
So it's empty because our template is currently empty.
So we've passed the data but we haven't rendered it yet.
So how do you render data inside the view you should use double currently braces and use the variable
name that was passed so in our case the variable name is data
so let's try to render it so everything you put inside the double curly braces will be rendered.
So if you are passing data to the view that's how you render it in the view.
Let's refresh
and you can see an error because we have passed an array and it has to be a string so we wanted to render
an array and instead we've passed an array which has only one key which is title so we can we can render
it as this data title
and now we can see hello from page 1.
And when you modify the URL you can see hello from page to
now we've handled a simple case with the required parameter.
Now let's see how we can do the same with the optional parameter so forth this will decide that we want
to display different welcome message depending on the second parameter.
So not always hello but maybe something like welcome to or hello to depending on the second parameter
so let's define our new variable call it welcome which would be an array and for one it could be.
Hello
and the second one would be welcome to maybe let's add an additional space
modify this page's array.
And now let's add an optional parameter so the optional parameter is also defined inside curly braces.
Let's call it welcome.
But to mark an optional parameter you have to add a question mark at the end of the parameter name.
Now inside the function definition will add another welcome.
So maybe let's modify this array name to welcomes.
And we have to add our default value.
So maybe the default value would be 1.
And now we have to pass this parameter to the view so let's call it.
Come and we'll pass it as an index of the welcomes array.
Okay so now how it will work is if you would specify your second parameter it will just look for it
inside the welcomes.
If you don't it will just use the default one.
So let's also modify the template and render a second value.
We've called the parameter welcome.
So now we can render are welcome variable
we can also reformat it to be a little bit more visible
and now let's go to the page and refresh.
So now nothing's changed.
We are using the default parameter.
And now let's add the second parameter so you can see that the second parameter with index to modifies
the welcome message to welcome to you can also specified as one so then you see there.
Hello but also the default one was specified with index 1 and the index 1 is hello.
So now we can all meet the second parameter to this URL and we still are able to display this page.
Now let's go to the terminal again and rerun our P2P artisan route list.
So now you can see how our new route looks like.
So it has required parameter and an optional parameter
the final thing you will need to know after this lecture is that every data that we pass through the
lava blade view is being escaped using h the email special char speech be built in function.
So this is to prevent the cross site scripting attacks and for example if you would like to surround
this hello message to make it bold this would be escaped and you can see the HDL code in here.
Let's check out the page source.
And now you can see that this was bank escape.
So if you will pass a javascript for example it would also be escaped.
Now if you want to actually render it as it is explicitly and you know what you are doing then there
is a way for this.
So instead of using the double curly braces we can use a single curly braces and add two exclamation
marks to the beginning and the end of the curly brace.
Save this changes.
And now when you refresh you can see that it was being rendered explicitly including the HD AML or the
javascript code that you will pass to the data through the data to the blade the view.